LASER310 machine B file processing system - Luo Zhangshou Luo Ya
Software reported August 16, 1987

    Analysis and ripping of LASER310 machine B files (ie machine language programs) is a tricky business. 
Use the BLOAD command to transfer the B file from the disk, which can be "stationary" in the memory, so 
there is a way to analyze it; but since you can't directly find the first and last addresses, it is very 
troublesome to use the BSAVE command to rip. In addition, the LASER machine does not have the command to 
record and check the B file on the tape. Therefore, it is difficult to transcribe the disk B file on the 
tape. As for the analysis and ripping of the tape B file, it is more difficult. Such files are automatically 
run as soon as they are loaded. Game B files are often difficult to interrupt (unless they are turned off); 
monitoring B files are often self-locking and encrypted during operation, even if they can be returned to 
the system, the memory remains. The true appearance of Mount Lushan; to analyze and rip, there is no means, 
and no correct information target can be found.

    Many monitoring programs provide the means to record tape B files, but they all have limitations, such 
as occupying a long user space; they can only process files in specific areas, and the calling program often 
conflicts with monitoring methods because of "super boundary"; Some can prevent the tape B file from running 
but cannot exit the monitoring. It cannot introduce other means for analysis; some can't be compatible with 
DOS... and it does not solve the problem that the disk B file is ripped to the tape and the disk and the B 
file are mutually transcribed.

    In the 20th issue of the "Software News" in 1986, "a method to prevent the program from running automatically" 
was published, only the tape B file. This method is also not ideal, not only is the operation tedious, it is 
easy to conflict with the target program, and the ripping and dragging water is recorded from the effect area 
to the end of the program. For example, a target program is in B600-B6FF, which has only 255 bytes, has to be 
recorded from 7800 to B800, up to 15.5K! In addition, because the CSAVE command is used, the B file is recorded 
as a T file, but it cannot be checked with the VERIFY command.


    Here, we are dedicated to the B file processing tool program we have compiled, which can solve all the 
above problems more satisfactorily. The source code written in machine code is only 190 bytes, and the 
equivalent source program written in BASIC language is also provided. In order to facilitate the masses and 
promote the application, it is intentionally not encrypted. When the source program is loaded with BRUN or CRUN 
and the source program is used for RUN operation, a B file processing system (hereinafter referred to as B system) 
will be set at the end of the high resolution display area, and the prompt is "?". The system has five instructions, 
namely:

R (or R "file name") ? --- transferred to the tape B file
L "file name" ? --- transferred to disk B file
W "file name" (or W) ? --- record B file on the tape
V (or V "file name") ? --- check tape B file
E?————Exit B system, clear screen returns to the original system.


The R, L, W, and V commands are executed or the errors and interruptions are all left in the B system. 
After the E command is exited, you can type "PRINT&" at any time and press Enter to enter the B system.

    The features and functions of the B system are:
1. Set at the end of the high-resolution display area, completely does not crowd the user program area, is not 
affected by the NEW command, and is compatible with the disk DOS and the monitoring means such as "MONITOR" which 
won the first prize of the national competition. From the 7AE9 --- B7FF (basic system) and 7200 --- 76FF range of 
all disk, with B files can be handled, there is no conflict.

2. The disk B file loaded by the R command can prevent the operation and accurately "stationary" in the original state. 
Then use the E command to exit, you can introduce monitoring means to observe and analyze its true face.

3. The L command does not work for a diskless system. In a reel system, it has the same functionality as the BLOAD 
command, and it is ready to use the W command to rip a disk B file onto a tape. After exiting the B system, the 
transfer file can also be analyzed and studied.

4.W command can cleanly transfer the disk B file transferred by the R command with the B file or the L command to 
the tape. The length and content are exactly the same as the parent, and once it is transferred outside the B system, 
automatic running.

The 5.V command can check the B file ripbed on the tape with the parent that is still in memory, just as the VERIFY 
command can check the tape T file.

6.B system stores the first and last addresses of the file transferred by the R or L command at 77BB————77BE 
(decimal 30651————30654). After exiting with E command, the PRINT PEEK (address) can be used to find the tone. 
Enter the low, high and low end of the file's first address, high, for the area to be determined during analysis 
and save with BSAVE.

7. Any disk B file and its own DOS compatible tape B file can be transcribed to disk. That is, use the L or R command 
to call in, the E command to exit, and find the first and last addresses as described in the 6th, you can use the BASVE 
command to save. The L, W command can be used to rip all disk B files to tape. This solves the problem of the 
transcription of the disk and the B file.

8. To transfer the B file into a split, you should choose a tool that does not conflict with the call-in procedure. 
In order to protect the transferred information, after changing the E command, the first address pointer of the text 
area is 30884. 30885 and the last address pointers 30969, 30970 will be changed to the back of the call-in procedure. 
When the loaded file is at the very high end of the memory, there will not be enough space to type the program or 
execute the direct command after the E command exits. At this time, if you call a disk or tape file (such as a monitor 
program) that does not conflict with the memory B file, the problem will be solved. If you do not intend to adjust the 
file, you should key the person POKE 30884, 233: POKE 30885, 122: NEW ? (if you can not type, you should first execute 
NEW), then you can type, run the program or direct command.

9. After exiting the B system with the E command, all commands and functions of the resident BASIC can be executed 
correctly. However, the T file loaded by the CLOAD command (including CRUN) must first be typed into 
POKE 30884, 233: POKE 30885. After 122, you can use the LIST command list and run with the RUN command.

In summary, the B system, combined with the various monitoring means, can realize the decryption, analysis and ripping 
of the existing game and monitoring B files of the LASER310 machine (including disk and tape recording). There are only 
two exceptions that it can't handle: one is the MODE(1) display on the disk with the BSAVE command, and the other is the
machine code program that happens to occupy the end of the high-resolution area.

Finally, the user should be reminded that the MODE(1) command should be disabled during operation to avoid damage to the system.

